[docs][dagster-dbt] add docs for row count metadata (#21910)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/integrations/dbt/reference.mdx

---

> ## Generate row count data for dbt models

Reviewer: Maybe this should be grouped under a section "Customizing asset materialization metadata".

Then, under that section, we should add "Fetch column-level lineage"

> ## Generate row count data for dbt models

Reviewer: for consistency with the API

```suggestion
## Fetch row count data for dbt models
```

<Note>
  <strong>
    Emitting row count data for dbt models is currently an experimental

>     feature.{" "}
>   </strong>{" "}

Reviewer: nit: just need one space.
```suggestion
    feature.
  </strong>{" "}
```

  To use this feature, you'll need to be on at least{" "}
  <code>dagster>=0.17.6</code> and
  <code>dagster-dbt>=0.23.6</code>.
</Note>

> Dagster has the ability to automatically fetch row counts for dbt-generated tables and emit them as [materialization metadata](/concepts/metadata-tags/asset-metadata) to be displayed in the Dagster UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dagster can automatically fetch row counts for dbt-generated tables and emit them as [materialization metadata](/concepts/metadata-tags/asset-metadata) to be displayed in the Dagster UI.
```

Row counts are fetched in parallel to the execution of your dbt models. To enable this feature, call [`fetch_row_counts()`](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt#dagster_dbt.core.resources_v2.DbtEventIterator.fetch_row_counts) on the [`DbtEventIterator`](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt#dagster_dbt.core.resources_v2.DbtEventIterator) returned by the `stream()` dbt CLI call:

```python startafter=start_fetch_row_count endbefore=end_fetch_row_count file=/integrations/dbt/dbt.py dedent=4
from pathlib import Path
from dagster import AssetKey, AssetExecutionContext
from dagster_dbt import DagsterDbtTranslator, DbtCliResource, dbt_assets
from typing import Any, Mapping

manifest_path = Path("path/to/dbt_project/target/manifest.json")

@dbt_assets(
    manifest=manifest_path,
)
def my_dbt_assets(context: AssetExecutionContext, dbt: DbtCliResource):
    yield from dbt.cli(["build"], context=context).stream().fetch_row_counts()
```

Once your dbt models have been materialized, you can view the row count data in the metadata table.

---

> ## Emit column-level lineage as materialization metadata

Reviewer: Probably should also be "Fetch"
